In the last number of videos, it was difficult to give you a demonstration without at least one method
on the class javadoc YouTube streams collectors class past us, an argument to the collect method on
stream.
I said this takes the elements on the stream and transforms into a list.
For example, they don't collect and in parentheses collectors not to list.
In this video, I want to talk about both the collect method and the reduced method on stream and the
Javadoc YouTube stream collector's class that provides very static factory methods that return an instance
of a collector.
First, let me show you the method signatures of collect on stream.
This is hard to read, let alone memorize.
But don't worry, because I'm going to be discussing all of these with code samples in this video.
In the next one, you can see the first method they collect returns, an object of type are and the
parameter is a collector using a wild card, lower bound T an R, and it performs a mutable reduction
operation on the elements of this stream.
Using a collector, a collector encapsulates the functions used as arguments to collect supplier by
consumer by consumer.
In this case, that's to last for reuse of collection strategies and composition of collect operations
such as multilevel grouping or partitioning.
And the next example thereof.
Collect also returns an object of type.
And you can see that there is parameters that are passed here.
A supplier of type are a bi consumer of type R with a wild card Lobaton T, that's the accumulator and
the third one by consumer of type R come R, which is the combiner.
So this one performs a mutable reduction operation on the elements of the stream.
Now mutable reduction is one in which the reduced value is a mutable result container such as an array
list, and the elements are incorporated by updating the state of the result rather than by replacing
the result.
So let's swing back to code.
We need yet another class in our Stream Operations project.
We'll call this one stream collect.
So this code creates a list of three strings, then uses a simple stream pipeline to add each to each
element and the correct method to generate a new list.
After the second list is created, a new element is added, confirming that the list returned from collect
collectors not to list the terms and mutable list.
The waiting list is printed, confirming the first list is untouched and the second list reflects all
changes.
Let's run this.
And we can say that is the case, we've got the first original list, which is untouched and the second
one with each added to each element in addition to that new element we've added.
There are a lot of 24, so basically here we are demonstrating, collecting data into another container
in this example, a container of the same type as the source of the stream.
The table below lists other collector static methods you can use to collect data in other forms for
mineral collections, the factory methods to collect the results of a stream to a collection or map
to collection, to concurrent map, to list, to map and to set an immutable collections.
We've got two and modifiable list, too, and modifiable map and two and modifiable set.
Next, let's look at some reduction operations provided by the Collectors' class.
We've got averaging double averaging into averaging long.
These provide averages of all elements, parts to it.
We've got the counting method which counts the elements.
And surprisingly, the joining method joins a string or sequence strings and string builders object
into one.
We've got MEXT by and by static methods which perform max and min operations.
We've got summarizing double summarizing int and summarizing long, which provide a set of summary statistics.
Count some maximon.
And finally, we've got something double something int and something wrong, which is summation operations.
Go back to a code that's a sensible code.
Postal code starts are 30, as you can see.
And what we're doing here is we're demonstrating the three overloaded versions of collectors joining.
You can join strings or tops which are typed to chase sequence with no delimiter, with a delimiter
or with a delimiter and some text joint both before and after the joint string.
So if you run this.
You see the result in the pain.
I want to add a poetry class student to the source for.
Post down here.
So this class will be used to demonstrate how to use the average operation provided by the collectors'
class, very simple.
Pirjo here a couple of attributes, constructor, which sets those attributes to string.
We've got a single Geter there for our attribute.
Right.
So let's go back up to our mind, Mithran, some code so we can use this class except the imports.
So in the first example, I'm getting a random storm events, as we've done in a previous video, this
section, and then invoking the collect terminal operation, passing it, the collectors start average
intermittent.
In a second example, I create a stream of stewarded objects, pass it to the correct method with the
collectors averaging double method and pass it to the method reference to the ghetto one student which
retrieves the GPA of each student.
Now if we run this.
You can see the airport at the bottom of the screen there.
So let's spend some more code to our main method.
Except those imports.
So this curve is demonstrating, getting statistics about a stream in its stream and a long stream provide
methods called summary statistics.
The collectors' class provides corresponding methods called summarizing it, summarizing double and
summarizing long in the code.
I'm demonstrating using the summary statistics terminal operation on an extreme Estacada line.
Seventy three and moving on down.
We are using to collect collectors, not summarizing it, to deter the same kind of data on a similar
stream, and in a third example I'm using to collect with the parameter of collectors DOT summarizing
double returns, summarizing data on the GPS of all the students passed to the street.
That's from that.
And we can see the output at the bottom of the screen.
All right, so let's have some fun now with grouping and partitioning of data.
This is where streams shine, in my opinion, first.
What we want to do is create a class that has enough data for us to create some examples.
So I need a new class, obviously, and we're going to call the element a top pit.
So it's going to be obviously in its own package.
So I'm just going to select the package in this case and call it pit, which I'll put it into that package
postcode.
And there's our pet class.
So this code is a poggio, but it contains arrays of data so that a new instance will call the constructor
and randomly populate data in the object.
So as we scroll down there.
He can say that code.
So I threw in a stream to grab a small array of random numbers in the constructor and use the array
to pick elements for each attribute.
We've got various letters to string method there as well, unless we need to create another class so
we can start testing this from across one stream grouping.
So being a route source for.
And in this country, what I'm doing is I'm printing one pen instance to the console so that you can
see data in the pet and then creating a list of 5000 pits using stream to generate and collect it,
then into a list.
And I'm going to show you an example of counting the number of dogs in the list using a stream and the
count operation.
So it's from this.
And there's the airport.
So let's finish the video here and we'll continue on in the next video with this example.
See you in the next video.